[Music]
professor Seyfried you are saying that
glucose and glutamine are feeding the
cancer cells so if we can construct a
diet so that we don't eat get glucose
what what can we do to stop putting
glutamine in our body and get it out you
can't do it that's it see if you can't
do it it's not possible
so because the glutamine is the most
abundant amino acid in the body and it
can be made from other other sources
it's called non-essential so your body
makes it you can make it from glucose as
a matter of fact even so plants yeah so
it's not you need what we need drugs
unfortunately but the drugs can be
specific and in low dose as long as it's
working with all of the other things so
there's no way in the diet you're going
to target glutamine so far as I know I
know ones it's just it's just glutamine
is such an important amino acid of the
urea cycle you know it's part of our
immune system our gut needs glutamine
glutamine is like and the cancer cell
needs glutamine so in the last 500
patients that you're aware of who
followed this protocol
what happened did they were they able to
do better than traditional cancer
patients by following this no glucose
gluten no one has done this it hasn't
been done we were the first to try it on
a brain cancer patient but we used
chloroquine and EGCG which that's the
green tea extract it's not as powerful
there are the drugs out there six days
of Nohr leucine but they're toxic but
you have to know how to use them and
very low cut you have to know how to
strategically use them to not harm the
body there are drugs available i i think
it's going to have to come down to a
combination of very healthy nutritious
foods and specific kinds of drugs that
and it has to be those strategically you
have to somebody has to know how to do
this so if someone followed the exact
protocol that you believe would work
best what would you predict would be
their success rate against cancer versus
tradition
cancer treatments you know it's hard to
say because I mean we know let's put it
this way
we can't know until we do the correct
kinds of studies and right now in the
big hospitals we have standard of care
standard of care with metabolic therapy
metabolic therapy includes targeting
glucose and glutamine maintaining the
correct nutritional balances that you
need and the missing group from all of
the studies that have been done to my
mind and is the key control group with
metabolic therapy without standard of
care yeah and that's the missing group
and you can't get anybody to do it no
hospital will allow it so the very
organization that needs to be involved
with this is part of the problem and
that and without that group we cannot
answer specifically your question the
only way that it could be done is to do
what dr. Esselstyn did with heart
disease which is basically people go to
him who are volunteering they're saying
I don't want any more drugs I don't want
to have any more procedure I'm gonna do
what you say and then he's followed him
for 32 years and that's the only way I
see it happening so we're starting to do
that we're starting a cancer and we're
enrolling cancer patients in a survey
program to track them and their
decisions so that someday probably after
I'm long gone we'll be able to answer
that question but that you're right
because they could it's considered
unethical to not give patients
treatments even if they don't work if
it's the standard of care so you can't
have that control
well that's then we have to come to the
changing of the policy and that what I'm
doing is writing case reports and
publishing them in the literature which
allow physicians to look and say you
know maybe we should do this on a bigger
scale and that's that's one of the ways
we can because you got a break you got
to break the system the way it is
because it's not working for so many
people and and I think you we need the
groups and the scientific evidence is
there it's not like this is all
unknown I mean this thousands of
research papers to say that this will
work it's just that it hasn't been done
and who pays for this right when you do
a clinical trial there's a lot of issues
you have to have a hospital that buys on
you have to have a sufficient amount of
money to do to pay the physicians to
recruit the patients who wants to pay
for a possible therapy that may not
generate the same degree of revenue that
other therapies generate that's right so
I had I had a patient I when I gave a
talk at a hospital up and up in Michigan
Sparrow hospital actually and I was
telling people this and one of the
radiation guys gets so angry he wanted
to leave and I asked him later I said
why you so angry he said well if this
stuff you're talking about we're gonna
have to close half the hospitals in the
country because radiation generates so
much revenue keeps the other process
he's going and I said what I don't know
how to address that revenue generation
we devalue human life to such a point
what happened to these young doctors I
mean I don't know a doctor that did not
get into it for the right reason when
you're 18 19 years old you don't say hey
I want to go through 12 years of
education and make a fairly poor salary
they did it for the right reason but
somehow that whole process I had in my
office four years ago a former Dean and
I won't name the school of a major Ivy
League medical school and his wife had
come to us and reverse liver cancer and
he came in and he was so you know elated
that we healed his wife and after he
talked for about a minute I said number
one how long have you been married and
he said thirty-eight years I said okay I
said you know have you learned to
respect your wife oh yes I respect your
eye so then how do you think I healed
her go out and hug her she healed
herself and you should be lucky because
god forbid she died you wouldn't know
what to do and he finally laughed you
know he was first offended and then he
left
then he was walking out and he said I'll
do anything to help you and I said no no
no
wait a minute come and sit down I said
what happens when you're training
oncologists is it intentional that you
get people to immediately act on the
protocol and he said yes he said if we
give every anyone a patient time to
think about what happened with her
father their mother their neighbor their
cousins through the treatments that
we're offering
most people would back out of it so I
heard it from the horse's mouth to say
number two are one of my team members
dr. maharaja the most notable stem-cell
doctors on the planet earth he and I've
had the conversation about glutamine and
he suspects that in the future he's not
quite sure he's playing with it now
there's ways to overwhelm the glutamine
with fresh cells stem cells and he's
more so focused on the brain because
glutamine is a critical part of brain
function at this point and too much
glutamine in the brain
equals what Alzheimer's disease so it
doesn't only create cancer conditions
there's a whole aura and I think we're
gonna learn more as time goes on with
these things so possibly stem cells will
be an answer but at this point we don't
know that
[Music]